isra EA kban has spent the past 16 days
on this encampment at University College
Dublin she and fellow students are
pushing for the University to end
Financial ties with
Israel through often noisy
protests we're occupying a building the
University Club uh which is private uh
dining club on the University campus H
it's where the university makes uh money
and we want come to hear our voices and
we see here that the university does not
want student voices to be heard at the
Irish capitals other major College
Trinity students have already pressured
University authorities into divesting
from Israeli
businesses frequent demonstrations in
Dublin since October have heavily shaped
broader public and political perceptions
too debates about Israel's actions in
Gaza have often divided European
parliaments in recent months but here in
Ireland politicians from across the
Spectrum have almost universally
welcomed the government's decision to
recognize Palestinian
statehood Paul Murphy is a member of
parliament for the people before profit
party and says such action is long
overdue just the horror has continued to
unfold the destruction of hospitals the
killing of journalists the massacre of
children women men um the pressure and
the the movement in Ireland having grown
then the Irish government has become
like more and more critical out
canvasing ahead of local elections he
says the source of this shift is clear
the main thanks for Ireland's
recognition should go to Ordinary People
it's Ordinary People by their attitudes
by their mobilizing by their protesting
by their encampments that have pushed
the Irish government to this point we
could go back quite far obviously in
talking about Palestinian resistance but
for the campaigners that University
College learning from their own faculty
about Palestinian history they now want
more than mere words I think
institutions across this island uh like
to rhetorically support the Palestinian
people in their struggle but do very
little to materially support that the
next step is going to be pushing the
government to sanction Israel to um end
ties with r manufacturers and to stop
the use of Shannon Airport and
transporting weapons to the Middle
East many Irish people recognize their
own path in Palestinians present day and
say their country's stance should simply
support a better future villain marks Al
jazer
Dublin make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer